.TH DAT 1 "2026-07-16" "Debian Admin Toolkit" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dat \- Debian Admin Toolkit, a modular administration toolkit for Debian
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dat
.RI [ OPTION ]
.RI [ MODULE ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dat
is the launcher for the Debian Admin Toolkit (DAT), a modular,
whiptail-based administration toolkit for Debian 12 and Debian 13, usable on
desktops and servers.
.PP
Without arguments it starts an interactive main menu. With a module id it
runs a single module directly. The toolkit ships modules for system
information, networking, desktop tweaks, software installation, maintenance
and HTML reporting, and it can be extended with drop-in plugins.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-list, \-l
List available modules and plugins, then exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version, \-V
Print the toolkit version and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Enable debug logging for this run.
.TP
.B \-\-help, \-h
Show usage information and exit.
.SH MODULES
Run
.B dat \-\-list
to see the installed modules. Built-in modules include
.BR system ,
.BR network ,
.BR desktop ,
.BR software ,
.BR maintenance " and"
.BR reports .
A module is run directly with, for example,
.BR "dat system" .
.SH CONFIGURATION
Defaults ship in
.IR /opt/debian-admin-toolkit/config/dat.conf .
They can be overridden system-wide in
.I /etc/dat/dat.conf
and per user in
.IR ~/.config/dat/dat.conf .
Recognised keys are
.BR DAT_LOG_LEVEL " (debug|info|warn|error),"
.BR DAT_LOG_DIR " and"
.BR DAT_UI_BACKEND " (auto|whiptail|text)."
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /opt/debian-admin-toolkit
Installed toolkit files (package install).
.TP
.I ~/.config/dat/dat.conf
Per-user configuration.
.TP
.I ~/.local/state/dat/dat.log
Default log file when the install directory is not writable.
.SH PLUGINS
Copy a single
.I .sh
file with a
.B # DAT-MODULE
metadata header into the
.I plugins/
directory to add a module. See
.I /opt/debian-admin-toolkit/docs/modules.md
for the format.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Returns 0 on success and non-zero on error.
.SH SEE ALSO
Project home page:
.UR https://github.com/grumel/debian-admin-toolkit
.UE
.SH AUTHOR
grumel <grumel@gmail.com>
